Experience

Minimum 5 years of coding experience in ReactJS (TypeScript), HTML, CSS-Pre-processors, or CSS-in-JS in creating Enterprise Applications with high performance for Responsive Web Applications.
Minimum 5 years of coding experience in NodeJS, JavaScript & TypeScript and NoSQL Databases.
Developing and implementing highly responsive user interface components using React concepts. (self-contained, reusable, and testable modules and components)
Architecting and automating the build process for production, using task runners or scripts
Knowledge of Data Structures for TypeScript.
Monitoring and improving front-end performance.
Banking or Retail domains knowledge is good to have.
Hands on experience in performance tuning, debugging, monitoring.
 

Technical Skills

Excellent knowledge developing scalable and highly available Restful APIs using NodeJS technologies
Well versed with CI/CD principles, and actively involved in solving, troubleshooting issues in distributed services ecosystem
Understanding of containerization, experienced in Dockers, Kubernetes.
Exposed to API gateway integrations like 3Scale.
Understanding of Single-Sign-on or token-based authentication (Rest, JWT, OAuth)
Possess expert knowledge of task/message queues include but not limited to: AWS, Microsoft Azure, Pushpin and Kafka.
Practical experience with GraphQL is good to have.
Writing tested, idiomatic, and documented JavaScript, HTML and CSS
Experiencing in Developing responsive web-based UI
Have experience on Styled Components, Tailwind CSS, Material UI and other CSS-in-JS techniques
Thorough understanding of the responsibilities of the platform, database, API, caching layer, proxies, and other web services used in the system
Writing non-blocking code, and resorting to advanced techniques such as multi-threading, when needed
Strong proficiency in JavaScript, including DOM manipulation and the JavaScript object model
Documenting the code inline using JSDoc or other conventions
Thorough understanding of React.js and its core principles
Familiarity with modern front-end build pipelines and tools
Experience with popular React.js workflows (such as Flux or Redux or ContextAPI or Data Structures)
A knack for benchmarking and optimization
Proficient with the latest versions of ECMAScript (JavaScript or TypeScript)
Knowledge of React and common tools used in the wider React ecosystem, such as npm, yarn etc
Familiarity with common programming tools such as RESTful APIs, TypeScript, version control software, and remote deployment tools, CI/CD tools
An understanding of common programming paradigms and fundamental React principles, such as React components, hooks, and the React lifecycle
Unit testing using Jest, Enzyme, Jasmine or equivalent framework
Understanding of linter libraries (TSLINT, Prettier etc)
 

Functional Skills

Experience in following best Coding, Security, Unit testing and Documentation standards and practices
Experience in Agile methodology.
Ensure quality of technical and application architecture and design of systems across the organization.
Effectively research and benchmark technology against other best in class technologies.
 

Soft Skills

Able to influence multiple teams on technical considerations, increasing their productivity and effectiveness, by sharing deep knowledge and experience.
Self-motivator and self-starter, Ability to own and drive things without supervision and works collaboratively with the teams across the organization.
Have excellent soft skills and interpersonal skills to interact and present the ideas to Senior and Executive management.
Build features in Angular 21 using Signals, standalone components, and zoneless change detection  
Dig into older code, understand it, and refactor it into something maintainable  
Contribute to our Angular Material -> Zard UI migration  
Build reactive data flows with NgRx and RxJS  
Build components that look and work great on both mobile and desktop using TailwindCSS and Sass  
Review code, share knowledge, and help shape how we build things going forward  

Role Summary
We are looking for a senior Front-end developer with experience in building production grade front-end applications, plus hands on exposure to AI tooling (e.g., OpenAI, GitHub Copilot). You will design and build front-end applications, own end to end from development to deployment on Kubernetes for these applications, and help drive observability, reliability, and security.
Key Responsibilities
• Design, develop, and maintain enterprise-grade front-end applications.
• Containerize applications with Docker and manage deployments on Kubernetes.
• Work with CI/CD pipelines for automated build, test, and deployment.
• Implement security best practices (authN/authZ, input validation, secrets management, OWASP Top 10).
• Use and advocate for AI assisted development tools (e.g., GitHub Copilot) to improve productivity and code quality.
• Implement comprehensive logging, metrics, and tracing; analyze logs and telemetry to debug issues.
• Perform root cause analysis (RCA) and implement permanent fixes.
Qualifications
• Strong experience with web-application frameworks like React/Angular etc. and Web technologies like (JS, TypeScript, HTML, CSS), Testing, Debugging, package management.
• Good understanding of UI/UX design and architecture principles (Responsive Design, Atomic Design/Micro-frontends, Accessibility, Performance optimization)
• Good hands-on experience in working with Rest API.
• Build Tools: Vite, Webpack/Turbopack or equivalent.
• State Management: Redux Toolkit or equivalent.
• Experience of using front-end AI tools (prompting techniques) to increase productivity (GitHub Copilot, Cline etc, Design to Code Tools etc)
• Experience deploying and maintaining atleast one application in production in the past is a must.
• Experience with tools like Playwright or equivalent testing frameworks for front-end stacks.